>> Ifill: PRESIDENT ARALLIED WON
THE FIGHT AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP AND CRIPPLE WHAT HE
CALLED THEIR NETWORK OF DEATH.
AS A NEW ROUND OF U.S.
AIRSTRIKES HIT SYRIA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY,
ARCHEOLOGISTS STRUGGLE TO
PROTECT IRAQ AND SYRIA'S
TREASURED CULTURAL RELICS FROM
BEING DESTROYED AS CASUALTIES OF
WAR.HIS IS ANCIENT MESOPOTAMIA,
REALLY THE CRADLE OF
CIVILIZATION WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
ONCE WE LOSE THESE ARCHEOLOGICAL
SITES, WE DON'T KNOW WHAT KIND
OF INFORMATION AND KNOWLEDGE
WE'RE LOSING FOREVER.
>> Ifill: PLUS, INDIA SENDS A
SPACECRAFT TO MARS ON ITS FIRST
TRY AND ON A SHOESTRING BUDGET.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
TARGETS AT ISLAMIC STATE
AGAIN THIS EVENING WITH A NEW
WAVE OF AIRSTRIKES HOURS AFTER
PRESIDENT OBAMA ADDRESSED THE
UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY
AND APPEALED FOR ACTION AGAINST
BOTH ISLAMIST TERRORISTS AND
RUSSIAN AGGRESSION.
MARGARET WARNER IS IN NEW YORK
FOR THE U.N. GATHERING.
>> WE COME TOGETHER AT A
CROSSROADS BETWEEN WAR AND
PEACE; BETWEEN DISORDER AND
INTEGRATION; BETWEEN FEAR AND
HOPE.
>> Warner: THAT STARK STATEMENT
HEADLINED THE PRESIDENT'S
ADDRESS ON A RAFT OF MAJOR
DANGERS FACING THE WORLD.
STARTING WITH THE RENEWED
CONFRONTATION BETWEEN RUSSIA AND
THE WEST.
MR. OBAMA ACCUSED MOSCOW OF
ENDANGERIHE-WAR ORDER
WITH ITS AGGRESSIVE ACTIONS IN
UKRAINE.
>> THIS IS A VISION OF THE WORLD
IN WHICH MIGHT MAKES RIGHT.
A WORLD IN WHICH ONE NATION'S
BORDERS CAN BE REDRAWN BY
ANOTHER.
AMERICA AND OUR ALLIES WILL
SUPPORT THE PEOPLE OF UKRAINE AS
THEY DEVELOP THEIR DEMOCRACY AND
ECONOMY.
WE WILL REINFORCE OUR NATO
ALLIES, AND UPHOLD OUR
COMMITMENT TO COLLECTIVE
DEFENSE.
>> Warner: BUT THE BULK OF THE
SPEECH WAS A DIRECT CHALLENGE TO
ARAB AND MUSLIM STATES TO OPPOSE
WHAT THE PRESIDENT CALLED A
GROWING THREAT TO GLOBAL
PROGRESS.
>> THAT IS THE CANCER OF VIOLENT
EXTREMISM THAT HAS RAVAGED SO
MANY PARTS OF THE MUSLIM WORLD.
>> Warner: HE INSISTED AGAIN
THIS IS NOT A WAR AGAINST A
FAITH BUT AGAINST THOSE WHO
PERVERT IT.
>> SO WE REJECT ANY SUGGESTION
OF A CLASH OF CIVILIZATIONS.
COLLECTIVELY, WE MUST TAKE
CONCRETE STEPS TO ADDRESS THE
DANGER POSED BY RELIGIOUSLY
MOTIVATED FANATICS, AND THE
TRENDS THAT FUEL THEIR
RECRUITMENT.COTERROR.
NO GRIEVANCE JUSTIFIES THESE
ACTIONS.
THERE CAN BE NO REASONING, NO
NEGOTIATION, WITH THIS BRAND OF
EVIL.
THE ONLY LANGUAGE UNDERSTOOD BY
KILLERS LIKE THIS IS THE
LANGUAGE OF FORCE.
SO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
WILL WORK WITH A BROAD COALITION
TO DISMANTLE THIS NETWORK OF
DEATH.
>> Warner: TO THAT END, THE
PRESIDENT URGED TO JOIN A FOUR-
PART PLAN, DEGRADING AND
DESTROYING THE ISLAMIC STATE;
IDEOLOGICAL REJECTION OF GROUPS
LIKE ISLAMIC STATE AND AL QAEDA;
REDUCE SECTARIAN CONFLICTS THAT
STOKE EXTREMISM; AND CREATION OF
GREATER OPPORTUNITIES FOR
PEOPLE.
MR. OBAMA ALSO ARGUED, IN BLUNT
TERMS, THAT HOSTILITY TO ISRAEL
CAN NO LONGER JUSTIFY DOING
NOTHING ABOUT OTHER REGIONAL
CHALLENGES.
>> THE SITUATION IN IRAQ AND
SYRIA AND LIBYA SHOULD CURE
ANYBODY OF THE ILLUSION THAT THE
ARAB-ISRAELI CONFLICT IS THE
MAIN SOURCE OF PROBLEMS IN THE
REGION.
FOR FAR TOO LONG, THAT'S BEEN
USED AS AN EXCUSE TO DISTRACT
PEOPLE FROM PROBLEMS AT HOME.
>> Warner: MR. OBAMA WENT ON TO
SAY THAT WHILE THE U.S. IS
INTEGRAL TO ANY BLUEPRINT FOR A
REVITALIZED MIDDLE EAST, THE
REAL IMPETUS MUST COME FROM THE
REGION ITSELF.
>> NO EXTERNAL POWER CAN BRING
ABOUT A TRANSFORMATION OF HEARTS
AND MINDS.
BUT AMERICA WILL BE A RESPECTFUL
AND CONSTRUCTIVE PARTNER.
WE WILL NEITHER TOLERATE
TERRORIST SAFE HAVENS, NOR ACT
AS AN OCCUPYING POWER.
>> Warner: ONE PARTNER IN THE
NEWLY-FORMED COALITION AGAINST
ISLAMIC STATE IS QATAR, WHICH
AIDED THE AIR STRIKES ON SYRIA
THAT BEGAN TUESDAY NIGHT.
THE WEALTHY GULF EMIRATE HAS
LONG BEEN ACCUSED OF STOKING AND
FUNDING EXTREMIST REBEL GROUPS
IN SYRIA.
TODAY, THE NEW EMIR OF QATAR DID
NOT ADDRESS HIS NATION'S ROLE IN
THE REGION.
>> ( translated ): IF SOCIETIES
WERE TO STAND WITH US IN THE
FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM WE NEED
TO BE FAIR TO THEM AND WE NEED
NOT PUSH THEM TO CHOOSE BETWEEN
TERRORISM AND TYRANNY OR BETWEEN
TERRORISM AND SECTARIAN
DISCRIMINATION.
>> Warner: TURKEY'S PRESIDENT
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN SPOKE IN
MID-AFTERNOON.
HE HAD SIGNALED YESTERDAY THAT
TURKEY MAY JOIN THE ANTI-ISLAMIC
STATE DRIVE MILITARILY.
AND THIS AFTERNOON THE PRESIDENT
IN AN UNUSUAL TURN CHAIRED A
SECURITY COUNCIL MEETING ON A
RESOLUTION REQUIRING ALL
COUNTRIES TO TAKE STEPS TO KEEP
THEIR CITIZENS FROM TRAVELING TO
JOIN VIOLENT GROUPS IN THE
MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA AND
ELSEWHERE.
AFTER THE RESOLUTION PASSED
UNANIMOUSLY, HE CHALLENGED
EVERYONE TO BACK UP THEIR VOTES
WITH DEEDS.
>> PROMISES ON PAPER CANNOT KEEP
US SAFE.
LOFTY RHETORIC AND GOOD
INTENTIONS WILL NOT STOP A
SINGLE TERRORIST ATTACK.
THE WORDS SPOKEN HERE TODAY MUST
BE MATCHED AND TRANSLATED INTO
ACTION.
>> Reporter: FAR FROM THE
COUNCIL CHAMBERS, THE U.S.
CONTINUED AIRSTRIKES AGAINST
ISLAMIC TARGETS IN SYRIA AND
IRAQ WITH THE LATEST WAVE
STARTING AS MIDNIGHT APPROACHED.
>> Ifill: MORE INSIGHTSNTO
THIS DAY AT THE U.N. AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: MILITANTS IN ALGERIA
HAVE BEHEADED A FRENCHMAN AFTER
PARIS REJECTED THEIR DEMAND TO
HALT AIR STRIKES IN IRAQ.
HERVE GOURDEL WAS KIDNAPPED ON
SUNDAY.
A GROUP LINKED WITH ISLAMIC
STATE FORCES RELEASED A VIDEO OF
HIS KILLING TODAY, AND FRENCH
PRESIDENT FRANCOIS HOLLANDE
CONFIRMED IT LATER.
>> Woodruff: A COURT IN JORDAN
TODAY ACQUITTED A RADICAL MUSLIM
CLERIC, ABU QATADA, OF PLOTTING
TO ATTACK ISRAELIS AND AMERICANS
BACK IN 2000.
QATADA, KNOWN FOR FIERY PRO-AL-
QAEDA SPEECHES, WAS GREETED BY
FAMILY AND FRIENDS IN AMMAN
AFTER HIS RELEASE.
HE WAS DEPORTED FROM BRITAIN TO
JORDAN LAST YEAR.
>> Ifill: NATO REPORTS A
SIGNIFICANT WITHDRAWAL OF
RUSSIAN FORCES FROM INSIDE
UKT THE
ALLIANCE SAID TODAY THOUSANDS OF
RUSSIAN TROOPS ARE STILL
DEPLOYED NEAR THE BORDER, AND
SPECIAL FORCES ARE OPERATING
INSIDE UKRAINE.
THAT'S IN SPITE OF THE CEASE
FIRE AGREEMENT SIGNED IN EARLY
SEPTEMBER.E RUSSIANS DENY THEY Y
TROOPS IN UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S BEEN
ANOTHER ATTACK ON HEALTHCARE
WORKERS IN WEST AFRICA'S EBOLA
OUTBREAK.
RED CROSS WORKERS IN
SOUTHWESTERN GUINEA WERE
ASSAULTED YESTERDAY AS THEY
COLLECTED BODIES OF SUSPECTED
EBOLA VICTIMS.
LOCALS SAY RELATIVES OF THE DEAD
WENT AFTER THE VOLUNTEERS.
LAST WEEK, EIGHT HEALTH WORKERS
AND JOURNALISTS WERE KILLED IN
GUINEA.
>> Ifill: AUTHORITIES IN
FERGUSON, MISSOURI CALLED FOR
CALM TODAY, AFTER RENEWED
UNREST.
FIVE PEOPLE WERE ARRESTED AND
TWO OFFICERS WERE HURT LAST
NIGHT.
THE TROUBLE STARTED AFTER A FIRE
BURNED AN IMPROMPTU SHRINE TO
MICHAEL BROWN, THE BLACK TEEN-
AGER KILLED BY A WHITE POLICE
OFFICER LAST MONTH.
HIGHWAY PATROL CAPTAIN RON
JOHNSON SAID TODAY THAT OFFICERS
ALSO REPORTED SEEING GUNFIRE
FROM THE CROWD.
>> WE MUST ALL STAND.
THE CITIZENS MUST STAND.
THE THIS AGENDA FOR PEACE, THIS
AGENDA TO MAKE OUR COMMUNITY
BERT TAKES US ALL.
WE CANNOT HAVE NIGHTS LIKE LAST
NIGHT.
WE CAN'T HAVE ACTIONS LIKE LAST
NIGHT THAT CAN RESULT IN INJURY
OR DEATH.
THOSE WILL NOT BE TOLERATED.
>> Woodruff: A JURY IS STILL
INVESTIGATING THE SHOOTING OF
MICHAEL BROWN.
>> Ifill: A STATE GRAND JURY IS
STILL INVESTIGATING THE SHOOTING
OF MICHAEL BROWN.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS
CONDUCTING ITS OWN, SEPARATE
>> Woodruff: NASCAR DRIVER TONY
STEWART WILL NOT FACE CRIMINAL
CHARGES IN A FATAL ACCIDENT
DURING A DIRT TRACK RACE.
PROSECUTORS IN UPSTATE NEW YORK
ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT A GRAND
JURY DECIDED NOT TO INDICT.
IN AUGUST, STEWART'S CAR STRUCK
AND KILLED KEVIN WARD JUNIOR
AFTER THEY COLLIDED, AND WARD
CLIMBED OUT OF HIS CAR AND
WALKED TO THE CENTER OF THE
TRACK.
>> Ifill: THERE WERE CALLS TODAY
FOR THE HEAD OF THE FOOD AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION TO STEP
DOWN.
16 GROUPS CHARGED DR. MARGARET
HAMBURG HAS FAILED TO STOP AN
EPIDEMIC OF PRESCRIPTION
PAINKILLER ABUSE.
OPPOSITION TO HAMBURG HEATED UP
LAST YEAR, WHEN THE F.D.A.
APPROVED A POWERFUL NEW
PAINKILLER OVER THE OBJECTIONS
OF MEDICAL ADVISERS.
>> Woodruff: A FEDERAL JUDGE HAS
RULED B.P. MUST STICK TO ITS
AGREEMENT TO COMPENSATE
COMPANIES FOR LOSSES IN THE GULF
OIL SPILL.
THE RULING TODAY, IN NEW
ORLEANS, DENIED THE OIL GIANT'S
BID TO RECOUP HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
QUESTIONABLE CLAIMS.
B.P. SAID IT WILL APPEAL.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET STAGED A
BROAD ADVANCE TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
154 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 17,210;
THE NASDAQ ROSE 46 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,555; AND THE S&P 500
ADDED 15, TO FINISH AT 1,998.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
CAN THE U.S. CONVINCE MORE
PARTNERS TO FIGHT ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS?
HOW IRAQ AND SYRIA'S TREASURED
CULTURAL RELICS ARE BEING
DESTROYED.
WHY TEACHERS ARE REJECTING MORE
RIGOROUS TESTING STANDARDS FOR
STUDENTS.
INDIA'S SUCCESSFUL MISSION TO
ORBIT MARS ON A SHOESTRING
BUDGET.
AND, DECREASING CALORIES
AMERICANS CONSUME IN SOFT
DRINKS.
>> Ifill: IT WAS A BUSY DAY AT
THE UNITED NATIONS.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER IS
THERE AND JOINS ME NOW.
MARGARET, THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US AGAIN.
IT WAS UNUSUAL TO SEE THE
PRESIDENT CHAIRING THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL MEETING THIS
AFTERNOON.
WHY DID THAT HAPPEN?
>? ONLY THE SIXTH TIME IN U.N.
SECURITY COUNCIL HISTORY.
THE PRESIDENT SAW AN OPPORTUNITY
TO GALVANIZE THE ENTIRE WORLD,
FINALLY, IN THIS FIGHT BECAUSE
IT SUDDENLY HAD BECOME CLEAR
THAT CITIZENS FROM 80 COUNTRIES
IN THE WORLD HAVE GONE TO JOIN
I.S.I.S., ISLAMIC STATE, ONE OF
THE GROUPS IN THE MIDDLE EAST,
RECRUITED BECAUSE THEY ARE
WESTERNERS OR HAVE FOREIGN
PASSPORTS, SOME RECRUITED TO GO
BACK AND REINSERT INTO THEIR
HOME COUNTRY TO STAGE ATTACKS
LATER.
HE SAW THIS OPPORTUNITY TO
APPEAL TO SELF-INTEREST AND GET
OTHER COUNTRIES IN THIS
COALITION WHO ARE NOT WILLING TO
JOIN A MILITARY EFFORT.
>> Ifill: WHAT PRECISELY IS
THE RESOLUTION AND HOW WOULD
THEY ENFORCE IT?
>> WELL, THE WORDING IS TOUGH.
IT SAYS EVERY COUNTRY MUST, AS
REQUIRED TO PROSECUTE AND
PENALIZE ANY NATIONAL CITIZEN TO
TRIES TO LEAVE TO GO JOIN ONE OF
THESE GROUPS, ANYONE IN THE
COUNTRY WHO HELPS FINANCE THEM,
RECRUITS THEM, GETS THEM EXCITED
ABOUT THE IDEA, HELPS THEM
TRAVEL, MAKE LOGISTICAL
ARRANGEMENTS.
SO IT'S VERY, VERY SPECIFIC.
IT ALSO REQUIRES THE COUNTRIES
TO SHARE A LOT MORE INTELLIGENCE
WITH ONE ANOTHER ABOUT NO-FLY
LISTS, THE AIRLINES TO COMPLY
WITH THE NO-FLY LIST.
I GUESS THE QUESTION IS WHAT IS
ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM.
>> Ifill: OKAY.
WELL, WE DON'T KNOW THE ANSWERS
TO THAT QUESTION YET, OBVIOUSLY,
BUT BECAUSE WE'LL HAVE TO WAIT
AND SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
BUT,SLY, WE'VE WATCHED
OTHER NATIONS INCLUDING JORDAN
AND TURKEY RESPOND NOT ONLY TO
THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH BUT THERE
WATHEREWERE A LOT OF LEADERS SPG
TO THAT.
WHAT WAS THE TALK ABOUT WHAT THE
PLAN WAS AND WHETHER IT COULD BE
EXECUTED.
>> ENFORCEMENT IS MOSTLY PEER
PRESSURE.
>> Ifill: RIGHT.
THE REACT WAS MUTED WHEN THE
PRESIDENT GAVE HIS SPEECH.
HE ANNOUNCED HE GOT 104
COUNTRIES TO SPONSOR IT, EVEN
MEMBERS WHO WEREN'T ON THE
COUNCIL.
THEY ALL TALKED ABOUT THE
SCOURGE OF INTERNATIONAL
TERRORISM AND HOW MUCH THREAT
THEY FEEL, AND SOME LEADERS
TALKED ABOUT SPECIFIC STEPS
THEY'VE ALREADY STARTED TO TAKE.
AS WE KNOW, THE BRITISH AND THE
FRENCH IN PARTICULAR ARE VERY
EXPOSED, HAVE A LOT OF FOREIGN
FIGHTERS.
THE FRENCH PRESIDENT SAID OF THE
50,000 FOREIGN FIGHTERS IN IRAQ
AND SYRIA 1,000 ARE FRENCH.
SO THEY HAVE BUILT IN
PARLIAMENT.
THEY'VE CROSSED CIVIL LIBERTIES
LINE ABOUT PREVENTING YOUR OWN
CITIZENS FROM TRAVEL IF THEY'RE
REASONABLY SUSPECTED TO BE
TRAVELING FOR THAT PURPOSE, THAT
IF ANY DO TO PREVENT THEM FROM
COMING BACK EVEN THOUGH THEY
HOLD PASSPORTS.
IN BRITAIN'S CASE, TO PROSECUTE
AND SUPPRESS EXTREMISTS, NOT
JUST VIOLENT BUT EXTREMISTS
FORCES IN SCHOOLS AND
UNIVERSITIES.
SO ALL WILL BE CONTROVERSIAL IN
VARIOUS COIEHAVE THE QUESTION OF
ONE PERSON'S TERRORIST IS
ANOTHER'S FREEDOM FIGHTER.
THE MOST INTERESTING REACTION
FROM THE ISLAMIC COUNTRIES, THE
PRESIDENT OF TURKEY, OF INDIA,
QATAR, AND THE KING OF JORDAN
CERTAINLY AGREED THIS IS A
SCOURGE BUT HAVE ALL BEEN
CRITICIZED ESPECIALLY TURKEY AND
QATAR FOR NOT THEMSELVES HAVING
FUND THE GROUPS OR CROSS THE
BORDER.
PRESIDENT OF TURKEY TOOK POT
SHOTS.
HE DID SAY THAT NOW THERE'S
BETTER INTELLIGENCE SHARING,
THEY HAVE ARRESTED OR STOPPED
SOME 6,000 POTENTIAL FOREIGN
FIGHTERS AND ARRESTED ANOTHER
1,000 AT THE BORDER.
SO HE WOULDN'T ADMIT HE'S DOING
MORE BUT DID SAY HE IS DOING
MORE.
>> Ifill: FASCINATING AND
UNUSUAL DAY AT THE NEIGHS.
MARGARET WARNER, THANK YOU.
>> THANKS, GWEN.
>> Ifill: WE GET TWO VIEWS NOW
ON HOW THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH
MAY BE RECEIVED IN THE MIDDLE
EAST AND AROUND THE WORLD.
JESSICA TUCHMAN MATHEWS IS
PRESIDENT OF THE CARNEGIE
ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL
PEACE, AND RAGHIDA DERGHAM,
COLUMNIST AND SENIOR DIPLOMATIC
CORRESPONDENT FOR AL HAYAT, THE
ARABIC LANGUAGE DAILY.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
SO THE PRESIDENT MADE THE CASE,
JESSICA TUCHMAN MATTHEWS, FOR
CONCERTED INTERNATIONAL
INTERVENTIONS.
WAS THAT THE RIGHT CASE TO MAKE?
>> I THINK THAT SPEECH HIT IT
RIGHT ON THE NOSE FOR THIS
AUDIENCE IN THAT HE WAS TOUGH,
BUT AT THE SAME TIME ENGAGING.
HE WAS, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN A
LONG TIME, NOT DEFENSIVE AND NOT
BACKWARD LOOKING AT THE WAR IN
IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN BUT FORWARD
LOOKING, AND THE FOCUS WAS NOT
ON WHAT WE'RE NOT GOING TO DO,
BUT WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO.
I THINK THE TONE OF THIS SPEECH
REALLY FINALLY CAPTURED A
PRESIDENTIAL TONE HE HAS LACKED
RECENTLY, INDEED AS A WORLD
LEADER.
YOU COULD SEE IT IN THE ROOM
PEOPLE WERE LISTENING, WERE
ENGAGED, WERE SITTING FORWARD IN
THEIR SEATS.
AND THE APPLAUSE AT THE END WAS
MUCH MORE THAN PRO FORMA.
>> Ifill: WHAT IS YOUR SENSE
OF WHAT HE DID AND DIDN'T SAY
AND PERHAPS WHAT HE NEEDED TO
SAY, RAGHIDA DERGHAM?
>> I THOUGHT THE PRESIDENT
LACKED THE OPPORTUNITY SAY WHAT
HIS STRATEGY WOULD BE.
HE SOUNDED MORE LIKE A PREACHER,
WHAT AND WHAT NOT TO DO, AND
RIGHTLY SO.
WHAT HE DIDN'T ADDRESS IS, FOR
EXAMPLE, IRAN'S RULE IN THE
REGION, REGIONAL AMBITIONS, ITS
ROLE IN SYRIA, IN PARTICULAR,
WHICH IS A PROBLEM FOR HIS
ALLIES IN THE COALITION.
WHAT HE DID NOT SAY IS, FOR
EXAMPLE, ANYTHING OF THE SAME OR
SIMILAR LANGUAGE ABOUT PRESIDENT
ASSAD WHOM, IN THE PAST, FROM
THE PODIUM OF THE ASSEMBLY, HAS
CALLED HIM A MAN WHO LACKED
LEGITIMACY AND AT OTHER TIMES
SAID YOUR DAYS ARE NUMBERED,
PRACTICALLY AND THIS TIME HE WAS
VERY LENIENT ON ASSAD, HE DIDN'T
LEAVE A MESSAGE THERE WAS
URGENCY TO ADDRESS THAT PART OF
THE PROBLEM, NOT ONLY THE
I.S.I.S. PROBLEM.
SIGNIFICANTLY, IN MY VIEW, HE
DID NOT MENTION YEMEN, A PLACE
BEING TAKEN OVER BY THOSE GROUPS
CLOSE TO IRAN AND THAT'S
SOMETHING PEOPLE WERE TALKING
ABOUT.
LIBYA WHICH IS FALLING APART,
AND I THINK THERE IS A PROBLEM
WITH T
BUT ALL I IN ALL, HIS CALL FOR
MODERATION IS VERY IMPORTANT AND
CALL ON OTHER COUNTRIES TO MAKE
AN EFFORT IN MAKING SURE THERE'S
MODERATION IS VERY IMPORTANT.
IT'S JUST A CALL FOR THE MOMENT
AND I THINK HE NEEDS TO DO MORE
THAN THAT.
>> Ifill: JESSICA TUCHMAN
MATTHEWS, A VERY DIFFERENT
SPEECH THAN WHAT HE DELIVERED AT
THE U.N. GENERAL ASSEMBLY IN THE
PAST.
DID IT NEED TO BE?
>> IT DID NEED TO BE.
THE CONTRAST LAST YEAR COULDN'T
HAVE BEEN STRONGER.
THAT WAS A DEFENSIVE SPEECH.
HE WAS APOLOGIZING FOR THINGS.
HE WENT EASY ON TALKING ABOUT
AMERICA'S ROLE.
TODAY HE WAS CONFIDENT IN
AMERICA'S ROLE AND UNAPOLOGETIC
ABOUT BOTH OUR STRENGTHS AND OUR
USE OF FORCE, BUT ALSO ABOUT TWO
THINGS, THAT THE SITUATION IN
SYRIA ONLY HAD A POLITICAL
SOLUTION, AND ABOUT THE NEED TO
CONFRONT THE IDEOLOGY OF VIOLENT
EXTREMISM.
AND I THOUGHT HE DID IT WITHOUT
IN ANY WAY BEING PREACHY OR
BLUSTERY OR SEPARATING HIMSELF
FROM EVERYBODY ELSE IN THE ROOM.
>> Ifill: WHAT ABOUT THE PART
RAGHIDA WAS SAYING ABOUT
CAN I.S.I.S. BE DEFEATED AND
ASSAD?
>> EVERYBODY KNOWS THIS IS A
TOUGH LINE TO FOLLOW.
I THINK THE MOST OPTIMISTIC
IS OUR ACTIVECAN SAY THAT'S
ENGAGEMENT BOTH IN THE AIR AND
ON THE GROUND, IN TRAINING AND
EQUIPPING FORCES, PROVIDES AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PERHAPS GET A
CEASE FIRE TO MILITARY FORCES ON
THE GROUND AND GET A CEASE FIRE
FROM WHICH YOU CAN MOVE FORWARD
WITH A POLITICAL SOLUTION, BUT
IT ISN'T GOING TO BE EASY.
>> Ifill: H INTERESTING
POINT TODAY, RAGHIDA DERGHAM,
THE PRESIDENT REQUIRED THE
HYPOCRISY OF WEALTHY NATIONS WHO
ACCUMULATE WEALTH JUST TO
ENDISABLE TERROR GROUPS AND
HEARD KING ABDULLAH FROM JORDAN
MAKE A SIMILAR POINT.
IS THAT SPEAKING IN PARTICULAR
TO ANYONE?
>> TO INDIVIDUALS, NOT STATES.
THOSE STATES HAVE BEEN ACTING IN
ALLIANCE WITH THE UNITED STATES
IN FIGHTING I.S.I.S. AND OTHER
EXTREMISTS WHO ARE RIGHT NOW
PART OF THE PROBLEM THAT IS NOT
FOR SYRIA AND IRAQ ALONE BUT
ALSO FOR THEM.
SO THEY HAVE BEEN VERY WELL
AWARE OF THAT.
THE TROUBLE IS THERE ARE
INDIVIDUALS WHO SUPPORT THESE
EXTREMIST, VIOLENT, FEDERALIST
GROUPS AND THESE ARE THE ONES WE
SHOULD WORRY ABOUT.
IN ORDER FOR THESE COUNTRIES,
THE GOVERNMENTS TO EITHER TAKE
ACTION AGAINST THEM OR AT LEAST
RALLY THE PUBLIC WITH THE
LEADERSHIP IN ORDER TO TAKE
ACTION AGAINST THEM, YOU NEEDED
TO GIVE MORE.
THE PRESIDENT NEEDED TO GIVE
MORE THAN SIMPLY SAY, HERE, YOU
HAVE A PROBLEM, AND HERE'S HOW
YOU DO -- YOU KNOW, DO LAWS AND
THEN WE'LL INCORPORATE WITH
INTELLIGENCE AND THEN END OF THE
LINE.
>> Ifill: AT THE SAME TIME,
HOWEVER, WE ARE HEARING HERE,
JESSICA TUCHMAN MATTHEWS, THAT
THE HEADS OF AL-SHABAAB AND
FRANCE AND KHORSAN, THE STRIKES
THAT BEGAN EARLIER THIS WEEK,
HAVE ALL BEEN ELIMINATED.
JESSICA TUCHMAN MATTHEWS, HOW
IMPORTANT IS THAT PIECE TO
MAKING THE LARGER CASE AT THE
U.N.?
>> IT'S ENORMOUSLY IMPORTANT
BECAUSE IT ALLOWS HIM, WITH U.S.
PLANES IN THE AIR, ACTING AS
EFFECTIVELY AS THEY HAVE, IT
UNDERLINES THE STRENGTH OF OUR
INTELLIGENCE AND THAT COMES NOT
JUST FROM OUR OWN BUT
CONNECTIONS IN THE REGION, AND I
THINK IT UNDERLINES THE STRENGTH
OF THAT AMERICAN PLEDGE AND THAT
HE REPEATED SEVERAL TIMES WE
WILL NOT BE DETERRED, WE WILL
NOT BE DISTRACTED, WE WILL NOT
DISENGAGE, WE WILL STAY ENGAGED
IN THE REGION.
THIS WAS A VERY DIFFERENT
MESSAGE THAN HE HAS GIVEN
BEFORE.
THERE WAS NONE OF THE HOLDINGNDT
INVOLVED THAT WE'VE HEARD SO
OFTEN BEFORE.
>> Ifill: RAGHIDA DERGHAM,
RESPONSE?
>> YES.
THERE HAS BEEN A HISTORY OF
RELUCTANCE BECAUSE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S ACTIONS LAST YEAR
GOING ALL THE WAY TO AN
EXECUTION OF A THREAT AND THEN
BACKING DOWN FROM IT.
SO THE FACT THAT HE IS NOW
ENGAGING IN THE FIGHT IN SYRIA,
THE FACT THAT HE HAS
HIS ALLIES THE ARAB STATES AND
NOT THE REGIME IN DAMASCUS THAT
SAID, LISTEN, HERE I AM, I AM
YOUR PARTNER IN FIGHTING
FEDERALISM, THIS IS IMPORTANT.
BUT IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT TO KNOW
WHO ARE THE BOOTS ON THE GROUND.
IN SYRIA IT IS THE MODERATE
OPPOSITION THAT IT'S NOT ENOUGH
TO WAKE UP AND SAY, YOU KNOW
WHAT?
I SHOULD HAVE ARMED YOU BEFORE.
IT'S NOT ENOUGH TO TELL THEM YOU
TAKE CARE OF THIS ON YOUR OWN.
YOU NEED ELEMENTS OF GOING
STRONGER, PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT
AGAINST ASSAD, AND IN IRAQ YOU
HAVE THE BOOTS ON THE GROUND,
THE SUNNIS, THE ONES WHO HAVE
DONE AWAKENING BEFORE, THEY'RE
SAYING I'M NOT GIVING YOU MY
BLOOD FOR FREE.
I NEED ASSURANCES ONCE AGAIN
BECAUSE IT'S HAPPENED BEFORE
THAT I HAVE COME AND HELPED, AND
IRAN WAS HAVING THE FREE HAND IN
RUNNING IRAQ.
SO WE NEED OTHER ASSURANCES.
I SHOULD HAVE --
>> Ifill: RAGHIDA DERGHAM AND
JESSICA TUCHMAN MATTHEWS, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> PLEASURE.
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW TO ANOTHER FORM OF
DESTRUCTION TAKING PLACE IN
SYRIA AND IRAQ, THAT OF HISTORY
ITSELF.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT THAT SIDE
OF THE STORY, PART OF HIS
SERIES, CULTURE AT RISK.
>> Brown: ON A SITE DATING BACK
TO THE EIGHTH CENTURY B.C., THIS
MOSQUE IN MOSUL WAS CELEBRATED
AS THE FINAL RESTING PLACE OF
THE BIBLICAL PROPHET JONAH.
IN JULY IT WAS BLOWN UP BY
MILITANTS FROM THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP.
SINCE TAKING CONTROL THIS SUMMER
OF MUCH OF NORTHERN IRAQ A
REGION BOASTING THOUSANDS OF
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES DATING BACK
TO THE BEGINNINGS OF
CIVILIZATION.
THE GROUP HAS DESTROYED
INVALUABLE CULTURAL RELICS IN
SPECTACULAR FASHION.
ABDULAMIR AL-HAMDANI IS AN IRAQI
ARCHAEOLOGIST NOW STUDYING AT
NEW YORK'S STONY BROOK
UNIVERSITY.
>> I'VE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH MY
COLLEAGUES, FRIENDS IN MOSUL
MUSEUM AND THE UNIVERSITY AND I
HEAR THE TERRIBLE NEWS, BEEN
VERY SHOCKED FOR THEM.
ITS REALLY DISASTER.
YOU KNOW, THEY SAY WE CANNOT SEE
MOSUL WITHOUT THAT SHRINE.
>> Brown: FOR THE MILITANTS ITS
A BALD STATEMENT OF CONTROL AND
BRAZEN DESTRUCTION OF RELIGIOUS
AND OTHER SITES IN CONFLICT WITH
THEIR INTERPRETATION OF ISLAM.
JUST ACROSS THE POROUS BORDER IN
SYRIA, THE THREE-AND-A-HALF YEAR
OLD CIVIL WAR GRINDS ON.
NEARLY 200,000 ARE DEAD AND
MILLIONS MORE HAVE BEEN
DISPLACED.
AN
HISTORY SPANNING ACROSS
MILLENNIA, LANGUAGES, AND
RELIGIONS IS BEING LAID WASTE.
>> THE DAMAGE IS ALMOST
INCALCULABLE.
>> Reporter: AMR ALAZM IS AN
ARCHAEOLOGIST AND MEMBER OF THE
SYRIAN OPPOSITION WHO TEACHES AT
SHAWNEE STATE UNIVERSITY IN
OHIO.
OVERALL, THE DAMAGE IS GREAT AND
I THINK, YOU KNOW, SYRIANS WILL
SPEND YEARS TO COME TRYING TO
WORK OUT HOW MUCH WAS LOST.
AND NOT JUST FOR SYRIANS BUT
ALSO FOR THE REST OF THE WORLD
AS WELL.
>> Brown: IN SYRIA'S CENTRAL
REGION, THE RUINS OF THE ANCIENT
OASIS OF PALMYRA, WHICH DATE
BACK TO THE 1st CENTURY A.D.,
HAVE BEEN DAMAGED BY MORTARS AND
SHELLING, AS GOVERNMENT AND
REBELS JOCKEY FOR POSITION.
OUTSIDE OF HOMS, THE CRAK DE
CHAVELIERS, A CASTLE BUILT BY
EUROPEAN CRUSADERS IN THE 12TH
CENTURY IS A UNITED NATIONS
WORLD HERITAGE SITE NOW BEARING
THE SCARS OF WAR.
>> ITS ONE OF THE BIGGEST
PROBLEMS TO CONFRONT THE
CULTURAL HERITAGE COMMUNITY IN
DECADES.
>> Reporter: CORINE WEGENER IS A
CULTURAL HERITAGE PRESERVATION
OFFICER AT THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION IN WASHINGTON.
>> THIS IS ANCIENT MESOPOTAMIA.
THE LAND OF THE FIRST CITIES,
YOU KNOW, SOME OF THE FIRST
WRITINGS.
AND ITS REALLY THE CRADLE OF
CIVILIZATION THAT WERE TALKING
ABOUT.
AND ONCE WE LOSE THESE
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES, WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT KIND OF INFORMATION
WERE LOSING FOREVER.
>> Brown: ALEPPO, THOUGHT TO BE
THE OLDEST CONTINUOUSLY
INHABITED CITY IN THE WORLD, HAS
SUFFERED TERRIBLE DAMAGE.
ITS MEDIEVAL MARKETPLACE,
ANOTHER RECOGNIZED WORLD
HERITAGE SITE, WAS SET ABLAZE IN
CITY AND
CITADEL, HAVE BEEN BADLY DAMAGED
BY FIGHTING AND NEARBY BOMBINGS.
WATCHING THE DESTRUCTION FROM
ABOVE, SUSAN WOLFINBARGER HEADS
THE GEO-SPATIAL TECHNOLOGIES AND
HUMAN RIGHTS PROJECT AT THE
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE IN
WASHINGTON.
THROUGH A NEW NATIONAL SCIENCE
FOUNDATION GRANT, WOLFINBARGER,
WEGENER AND RESEARCHERS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA ARE
USING SATELLITE IMAGERY TO
DOCUMENT INTENTIONAL DESTRUCTION
OF CULTURAL HERITAGE IN SYRIA
AND IRAQ, IN PLACES TOO
DANGEROUS TO VISIT.
>> WE WANT TO CONSTRUCT A
TIMELINE OF WHAT'S HAPPENING AT
THOUSANDS OF IMPORTANT SITES
ACROSS SYRIA SO THAT WE CAN HAVE
A VERY CLEAR IDEA OF WHAT'S
HAPPENED, WHEN-- AND THIS'LL BE
IMPORTANT DOWN THE ROAD BC WE
BELIEVE THAT THERE WILL BE A LOT
OF INTERNATIONAL ATTENTION ONCE
THE CONFLICT ENDS IN TERMS OF
LITIGATION AND PROSECUTION.
>> Brown: BUT THE DESTRUCTION
GOES BEYOND COLLATERAL DAMAGE
AND INTENTIONAL ACTS.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, THE U.S.
STATE DEPARTMENT RELEASED THESE
BEFORE AND AFTER SATELLITE
IMAGES, SHOWING ANCIENT GROUNDS
IN SYRIA.
AT DURA EUROPOS, A HELLENISTIC
SITE IN EASTERN SYRIA, FOR
EXAMPLE, THE IMAGE SHOWS A
POCKMARKED LANDSCAPE.
THOUSANDS OF HOLES IN THE
GROUND, ILLUSTRATING ANOTHER
ERASURE OF HISTORY, ILLEGAL
EXCAVATION AND LOOTING.
AMR ALAZM SAYS AS THE CONFLICT
HAS DRAGGED ON, THE LOOTING HAS
BECOME FAR MORE SOPHISTICATED
AND DESTRUCTIVE.
>> IN THE BEGINNING OF THE
CONFLICT, GOING TO BACK TO 2011,
YOU KNOW LATE 2011, AND FOR
PROBABLY MUCH OF 2012, IT WAS
MOSTLY OPPORTUNISTIC.
BUT WHAT WERE SEEING TODAY IN
2014 IS FAR BEYOND OPPORTUNISTIC
LOOTING.
WERE LOOKING NOW AT ORGANIZED,
ALMOST INDUSTRIAL SCALE LOOTING
IN SOME CASES.
AND THAT'S WHAT'S REALLY,
REALLY, DANGEROUS.
>> Brown: AND THERE ARE REPORTS
THAT the ISLAMIC STATE GROUP,
ALSO CALLED ISIS OR ISIL, IS
ALLOWING AND INDEED PROFITING
DIRECTLY FROM THE LOOTING AND
SALE OF STOLEN ANTIQUITIES.
IN AN EFFORT TO SLOW THAT
MARKET, THE U.S. STATE
DEPARTMENT JOINED OTHERS IN
ISSUING A SO-CALLED RED LIST OF
SYRIAN CULTURAL OBJECTS AT RISK
CERAMICS, MOSAICS, SCULPTURES
AND MORE, TO HELP ART DEALERS,
MUSEUM DIRECTORS, LAW
ENFORCEMENT AND OTHERS IDENTIFY
PLUNDERED OBJECTS THAT MAY COME
THEIR WAY VIA THE BLACK MARKET.
BUT THE DESTRUCTION AND THREAT
CONTINUE.
AND THE WORLD IS TAKING NOTICE.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SOUNDED THE ALARM THIS WEEK ATTN
NEW YORK.
>> WE GATHER IN THE MIDST OF ONE
OF THE MOST TRAGIC AND ONE OF
THE MOST OUTRAGEOUS ASSAULTS ON
OUR SHARED HERITAGE THAT PERHAPS
ANY OF US HAVE SEEN IN A
LIFETIME.
ANCIENT TREASURES IN IRAQ AND
SYRIA HAVE NOW BECOME THE
CASUALTIES OF CONTINUING WARFARE
AND LOOTING.
>> Brown: MEANWHILE, AND SYRIAN
ARCHAEOLOGISTS AND CURATORS ON
THE GROUND ARE WORKING TO
PROTECT WHAT THEY CAN.
THIS SUMMER, A GROUP OF THEM,
THEIR FACES BLURRED HERE FOR
THEIR PROTECTION, CAME ACROSS
THE TURKISH BORDER FOR A
TRAINING SESSION WITH AMR ALAZM,
CORINE WEGENER AND OTHERS.
>> THE TRAINING FOCUSED ON
SHOWING THESE ACTIVISTS AND
THESE MUSEUM STAFF HOW TO PACK
ITEMS, HOW TO PACK ARTIFACTS IN
BOXES, HOW TO WRAP THEM, HOW TO
RECORD THE ACTIVITY, HOW TO MAKE
SURE THAT EVERYTHING IS
DOCUMENTED.
>> WORSE CASE SCENARIO, YOU
KNOW, MAYBE ALL YOU HAVE IS A
CONTAINER OR A CARDBOARD BOX AND
YOU FILL IT WITH SAND AND YOU
PUT THE OBJECTS IN AROUND THE
SAND, BECAUSE THAT'S AT LEAST
GOING TO KEEP IT FROM BEING
BROKEN UNTIL YOU GET WHERE
YOU'RE GOING IF YOU HAVE TO
EVACUATE SOMETHING.
>> Brown: SANDBAGS IN THE DIRT,
SATELLITES IN THE SKY, BRAVEANDS
STILL WORKING TO PROTECT AND
PRESERVE THEIR OWN AND THE
WORLDS HISTORY.
>> Woodruff: HAS TESTING IN OUR
SCHOOLS RUN AMOK?
IT'S A QUESTION MORE PARENTS,
TEACHERS AND SCHOOL OFFICIALS
ARE ASKING AROUND THE COUNTRY.
THIS IS THE FIRST YEAR SCORES ON
NEW TESTS TIED TO THE COMMON
CORE STANDARDS WILL BE PUBLISHED
IN MANY STATES.
SOME EARLY ADOPTERS LIKE NEW
YORK HAVE ALREADY FOUND STUDENT
SCORES DIVE ON THE NEW EXAMS.
NOW MORE PARENTS ARE OPTING
CHILDREN OUT OF TESTS AND SOME
OFFICIALS ARE CALLING FOR A TIME
OUT WHEN IT COMES TO LINKING
TEST RESULTS TO CONSEQUENCES.
AS PART OF OUR AMERICAN GRADUATE
SERIES, WE EXPLORE THIS WITH TWO
WHO ARE CLOSELY INVOLVED.
ALBERTO CARVALHO IS THE
SUPERINTENDENT OF MIAMI DADE
COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT WHO'S
CALLING FOR CHANGES.
HIS DISTRICT IS DEALING WITH
DOZENS OF MANDATED TESTS
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
AND KATHLEEN PORTER-MAGEE IS
WITH THE PARTNERSHIP FOR INNER
CITY EDUCATION AND A FELLOW AT
THE THOMAS B. FORDHAM INSTITUTE
TO YOU FIRST, ALBERTO CARVALHO
IN M MIAMI DADE, WHAT DO YOU SEE
IN YOUR DISTRICT IN TERMS OF THE
NUMBER OF TESTS STUDENTS ARE
EXPECTED TO TAKE?
>> WELL, I'VE SEEN A COMPLETE
SWING OF THE PENDULUM WAY TOO
FAR IN THE DIRECTION OF
OVERTESTING.
RIGHT NOW THIS YEAR WE'RE FACING
ABOUT 32 DIFFERENT ASSESSMENTS,
DIFFERENT TESTS OUR STUDENTS
WILL HAVE TO TAKE, IN ADDITION
TO ABOUT 1,200 DIFFERENT
END-OF-COURSE ASSESSMENTS
MANDATED BY BOTH STATE AND
FEDERAL ENTITIES.
SO I THINK IF THAT'S NOT AN
INDICATION OF TEACHING TIME
BEING ROBBED FROM TEACHERS AND
STUDENTS ALIKE IN FAVOR OF
TESTING, I DON'T KNOW WHAT WOULD
BE.
SO I THINK THAT'S A REAL CRISIS
WE FACING NOT ONLY IN MIAMI BUT
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND I THINK
WE NEED TO RECALIBRATE THE
NECESSITY OF SO MANY OF THESE
TESTS, CONDUCT A THOROUGH
ANALYSIS OF THE DUPLICATE NATURE
OF SOME OF THESE EXAMS AND HAVE
A RAPID PROGRESSION BACK TO
REASON IN TERMS OF WHAT'S
APPROPRIATE FOR STUDENTS AND
TEACHERS ALIKE.
>> Woodruff: KATHLEEN, IS THIS
AS ONEROUS AS ALBERTO CARVALHO
DESCRIBES?
>> THIS IS A NATIONAL DEBATE.
SOME DISTRICTS STUDENTS ARE
TAKING HOURS UPON HOURS OF
TESTS.
OTHER PLACES, I THINK IT IS FAR
LESS SO AND I THINK THAT IS ONE
OF THE CHALLENGES.
WE NEED TO SEPARATE THIS OUT AND
HAVE LOCAL DEBATES ABOUT WHAT
MAKES SENSE FOR EACH COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE SAYING
IT DEPENDS ON WHERE YOU LIVE?
>> DEPENDS ON WHERE YOU LIVE,
YEAH, BECAUSE IN A LOT OF PLACES
THERE ARE STATE REQUIREMENTS,
FOR EXAMPLE EXAMPLE, THAT
STUDENTS TAKE ENGLISH LANGUAGE
ARTS AND MATH ASSESSMENTS
ALIGNED TO THE COMMON CORE
STANDARDS IN.
SOME DISTRICTS, THERE ARE
MENTS, IN
ADDITION SOMETIMES SCHOOL
REQUIRES TESTINGS THAT GO ON TOP
OF THAT.
ALL THAT CAN ADD TO HOURS AND
HOURS OF TESTING, TAKING AWAY
FRIN INSTRUCTION, SO IT CAN
REACH A POINT WHERE IT'S FAR TOO
MUCH.
OTHER PLACES IT'S LIMITED TO THE
STATE MANDATE AND FAR MORE
FLEXIBILITY AT THE LOCAL LEVEL
SO WHAT STUDENTS AND TEACHERS
CAN DO.
>> Woodruff: ALBERTO CARVALHO
IN MIAMI-DADE, WHAT IS IT YOU'RE
SAYING IS THE DELETERIOUS EFFECT
OF THIS?
HOW IS IT AFFECTING THE
EDUCATION OF THESE STUDENTS?
>> I THINK I AGREE WITH WHAT WAS
SAID JUST NOW.
I THINK IT VARIES FROM STATE TO
STATE, COMMUNITY TO COMMUNITY.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE 32
ASSESSMENTS ARE REALLY STATE AND
FEDERALLY MANDATED.
BUT CERTAINLY THE VARIANCE
ACROSS THE COUNTRY IS RATHER
PRONOUNCED.
LOOK, THE BOTTOM LINE FOR ME IS
I BELIEVE IN ACCOUNTABILITY.
I BELIEVE THAT YOU NEED TO HAVE
A REASONABLE AND RESPECTFUL WAY
OF ASSESSING CHILDREN.
OTHERWISE, THEY DON'T HAVE A WAY
OF INFORMING THE TEACHING AND
LEARNING PROCESS.
THAT'S KEY.
I THINK HOW WE'RE USING THE
RESULTS OF TESTING IS WHAT WE
NEED TO QUESTION, IN ADDITION TO
THE NUMBER OF EXAMS THAT WE HAVE
IN FRONT OF CHILDREN.
WE HAVE 32 DIFFERENT STATE AND
FEDERALLY MANDATED EXAMS ON A
SYSTEM LIKE MIAMI-DADE.
IN ADDITION TO THE PROSPECT OF
1,200 ADDITIONAL END-OF-COURSE
EXAMS FOR EVERY COURSE TAUGHT IN
THE STATE OF FLORIDA I THINK IS
GOING TOO FAR.
SECONDLY, WE ALL RECOGNIZE AS
EDUCATORS YOU CANNOT MANAGE WHAT
YOU CAN'T MEASURE.
HOWEVER, WHEN WE USE THE RULES
OF ASSESSMENT, FOR EXAMPLE, IN
UNTESTED WAYS, VENTURING INTO
AREAS THAT DON'T NECESSARILY
INFORM WHAT TEACHERS NEED TO
KNOW OR COMMUNITIES NEED TO
ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT CHILDREN
ARE LEARNING, YOU'RE GOING TOO
FAR.
THE TRUE APPLICABILITY OF
ASSESSMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY IS
STRICTLY TO INFORM THE
INSTRUCTIONAL PROCESS.
TYING IT UP INTO UNPRECEDENTED
METHODOLOGY, THE WAY IT IS TO
REWARD SCHOOLS WITH ADDITIONAL
FUNDING OR TEACHERS' EVALUATION,
USING UNTESTED METHODOLOGY LIKE
THEM, IS PERHAPS GOING TOO FAR.
>> Woodruff: KATHLEEN
PORTER-MAGEE, SOUNDS LIKE HE'S
SAYING THE TESTS ARE MADE TO
MEASURE SOMETHING THAT CAME OUT
OF A THINK TANK RATHER THAN
APPLIED TO WHAT THE CHILDREN
NEED TO LEARN.
>> FOR THE MOST PART, I DON'T
THINK -HAT'S TRUE.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE STATE TESTS
ALIGNED TO STATE STANDARDS.
THEY'RE MADE TO TEST WHETHER OR
NOT STUDENTS HAVE MASTERED THE
SKILLS THE STATE SAYS THEY NEED
AT EACH LEVEL.
IN SOME OF THOSE CASES, THE
TESTS ARE VERY IMPORTANT BECAUSE
THEY GAUGE AND TELL US ARE OUR
STUDENTS LEARNING WHAT THEY NEED
TO LEARN.
FOIN FACT, IT WAS THE ADVENT OF
STATE-LEVEL TESTING AND
ACCOUNTABILITY THAT ALLOWED US
TO HAVE THE CONVERSATIONS WE'RE
HAVING TODAY ABOUT THINGS LIKE
THE ACHIEVEMENT GAP.
WE REALLY SAW THAT OUR MOST
DISADVANTAGED STUDENTS WERE JUST
LEARNING FAR LESS AND IT WAS SO
CLEAR, AND THE POWER OF THE TEST
WAS REALLY CONTRIBUTING TO THAT
CONVERSATION.
>> Woodruff: QUICKLY TO YOU,
THIS ARGUMENT THAT TEACHERS ARE
NOW TEACHING TO THE TEST RATHER
THAN TEACHING WHAT THEY NEED TO
BE SPENDING TIME WITH THESE
CHILDREN.
>> YEAH, AND I THINK THAT'S A
FAIR UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE.
WHEN PEOPLE SAY TEACHING TO THE
TEST, I THINK WHAT THEY MEAN IS
TRYING TO GAME THE TEST.
ESSENTIALLY THEY'RE TAKING AWAY
FROM CONTENT INSTRUCTION AND
TEACH TRICKS.
RW YOU ANSWER THIS
QUESTION, HERE'S HOW YOU
ELIMINATE ANSWER CHOICES.
WHEN THAT IS SUPPLANTING CORE
CONTENT INSTRUCTION, STUDENTS
LOSE.
SO THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT WHEN
THAT HAS STARTED TO HAPPEN AND
WE HAVE SEEN IT HAPPEN AND I
HAS BEEN AN UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCE, THAT'S BAD.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO COME
BACK TO SUPERINTENDENT CA CARVAO
IN OUR LIMITED TIME.
THE POINT HAS BEEN MADE FLORIDA
AND MIAMI-DADE HAD TIME TO
PREPARE FOR THE COMMON CORE
STANDARDS AND, YET, THIS HAS
HAPPENED IN A WAY THAT THE
COUNTY AND AROUND THE STATE,
THEY SEEM TO BE TAKEN ABACK BY
IT.
WHY WASN'T THE STATE OR WAS THE
STATE, IS THE COUNTY BETTER
PREPARED TO HANDLE THE COMMON
CORE REQUIREMENTS?
>> WELL, I THINK THE COUNTY IS
ACTUALLY PREPARED.
OUR TEACHERS ARE READY TO
IMPLEMENT THE STANDARDS.
WE HAVE BEEN IMPLEMENTING THE
STANDARDS OVER THE PAST YEARS.
THE STATE WAS ON THE LATE TRAIN
IN IN TERMS OF ADOPTING THE
TESTING.
NOBODY'S QUESTIONING THE
NECESSITY OF ASSESSMENT.
I SUPPORT THE ASSESSMENT.
IN FACT, I BELIEVE THAT
OVERTESTING IS JUST AS BAD AS
NOT TESTING AT ALL.
HOW WOULD YOU KNOW WHETHER OR
NOT YOU CAN IDENTIFY POCKETS OF
UNDERPERFORMING STUDENTS EVEN IN
HIGH-PERFORMING SCHOOLS OR
DISTRICTS?
SO ASSESSMENT IS IMPORTANT.
>> Woodruff: KATHLEEN
PORTER-MAGEE, TO YOU, FINALLY,
WHAT IS IT THAT NEEDS TO BE
DONE?
YOU'RE SAYING DON'T THROW OUT
ALL TESTING, YOU'RE JUST SAYING
TAKE A CAREFUL LOOK AT IT?
>> ABSOLUTELY, I THINK THERE
NEEDS TO BE A CAREFUL LOOK.
I THINK WE NEED TO LOOK AT
INDIVIDUAL STUDENTS AND SAY HOW
MANY HOURS OF TESTING ARE WE
GIVING AN INDIVIDUAL STUDENT AND
IS THAT TOO MUCH, IS IT TAKING
AWAY FROM CORE INSTRUCTION, AND
HOW WITH WE USING THE RESULTS.
I THINK THOSE ARE TOUGH
QUESTIONS WE NEED TO ASK BUT I
THINK WE NEED TO BE CAREFUL NOT
TO THROW THE BABY OUT WITH THE
BATH WATER.
I THINK TESTS ARE IMPORTANT AND
I THINK THEY HAVE CONTRIBUTED IN
A POSITIVE WAY TO THE EDUCATION
DEBATE.
>> Woodruff: WE LEAVE IT ON
THAT NOTE.
KATHLEEN PORTER-MAGEE, THANK
YOU.
AND SUPERINTENDENT ALBERTO
CARVALHO.
>> Ifill: OUR AMERICAN GRADUATE
UNIT IS PART OF A PUBLIC MEDIA
INITIATIVE FUNDED BY THE
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
BROADCASTING.
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL BRING YOU A
SECOND STORY INVOLVING THE STATE
OF FLORIDA THIS ABOUT HOW
SCHOOLS ARE DEALING WITH AN
INFLUX OF IMMIGRANTS.
SATURDAY MARKS AMERICAN GRADUATE
DAY ACROSS THE COUNTRY WHEN
THERE WILL BE A SPECIAL
BROADCAST ON MOST PBS STATIONS,
FEATURING INTERVIEWS WITH
EDUCATION SECRETARY ARNE DUNCAN,
AND CELEBRITIES LIKE TONY
BENNETT, AND ACTRESS ALLISON
WILLIAMS, ALONG WITH STUDENT
VOICES AND MANY OTHERS MAKING A
DIFFERENCE IN THE LIVES OF YOUNG
PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: NOW LET'S TURN TO A
SPACE STORY THAT CAPTURED THE
WORLD'S ATTENTION TODAY.
AS INDIA CLAIMS A TRIUMPH IN ITS
FIRST MISSION TO MARS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: CHEERS ERUPTED
AT THE INDIAN SPACE RESEARCH
ORGANIZATION ON WORD THAT THE
SATELLITE NAMED MANGALYAAN, OR
MARS CRAFT, HAD SWUNG INTO MARS
ORBIT.
JOURNALIST PALLAVA BAGLA WAS AT
MISSION CONTROL IN BANGALORE,
AND SPOKE WITH US VIA GOOGLE
HANGOUT.
>> WHEN IT EMERGED FROM BEHIND
MARS 12 MINUTES LATER AND THE
SIGNAL CAME THAT THE MAIN ROCKET
ENGINE HAD ITS STOPPED FIRING,
OH MY GOD, I HAVE NEVER SEEN
SUCH HAPPY FACES IN INDIA.
>> Sreenivasan: INDIA JOINED THE
U.S., THE FORMER SOVIET UNION,
AND THE EUROPEAN UNION AS THE
ONLY ONES TO LAND A SPACECRAFT
ON THE RED PLANET, OR PLACE ONE
IN ORBIT.
PRIME MINISTER NARENDRA MODI.
>> HISTORY HAS BEEN CREATED
TODAY.
WE HAVE DARED TO REACH OUT INTO
THE UNKNOWN AND HAVE ACHIEVED
THE NEAR IMPOSSIBLE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE INDIANS
PULLED IT OFF ON THE FIRST TRY
FOR JUST $75 MILLION DOLLARS
LESS THAN IT COST TO MAKE
GRAVITY, THE OSCAR-WINNING
BLOCKBUSTER MOVIE.
BUT THERE HAVE BEEN DEBATES OVER
WHETHER THE MONEY COULD BE
BETTER SPENT IN A COUNTRY WHERE
OVERTYNS LIVE IN WRENCHING
>> AT ONE END OF THE SPECTRUM SO
MUCH OF MONEY THAT IS BEING
SPENT TO SEND A ROCKET OUT INTO
OUTER SPACE, WHEN WE KNOW THAT
HERE ON EARTH, IN MY COUNTRY,
THERE ARE CHILDREN DYING EVERY
DAY BECAUSE THEY HAVE NO FOOD TO
EAT.
STILL, THE SUCCESS IN SPACE
PROVED INSPIRATIONAL FOR MANY,
INCLUDING SCHOOL CHILDREN WHO
ARRIVED IN CLASS EARLY TO WATCH
A VERY BIG ACHIEVEMENT
FOR INDIA.
I MEAN, WE ARE FEELING VERY
PROUD TO BE INDIANS.
PROUD TO BE BORN IN A COUNTRY
WHO CAN DO ANYTHING.
>> Sreenivasan: INDIA'S
SATELLITE FOLLOWED CLOSE BEHIND
THE U.S. MAVEN ORBITER, WHICH
ARRIVED AT MARS ON SUNDAY.
>> WE ARE ON ORBIT OF MARS,
GUYS.
( LAUGHTER )
AND WE'VE TAKEN ELEVEN YEARS TO
GET HERE AND NOW WE GET TO DO
THE SCIENCE THAT WE HAVE BEEN
PLANNING FOR ALL THIS TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: MAVEN COST
NEARLY TEN TIMES THAT OF
INDIA'S, BUT THEIR MISSIONS ARE
SIMILAR, TO EXAMINE HOW THE
PLANET WENT FROM WARM AND WET TO
COLD AND DRY.
MORE NOW ABOUT INDIA'S HISTORIC
MISSION, ITS SPACE PROGRAM AND
WHERE THIS FITS INTO OUR
EXPLORATION OF MARS.
MILES O'BRIEN IS THE NEWSHOUR'S
SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT AND HE
JOINS ME FROM BOSTON.
THEY HAVE EVERY RIGHT TO BE
EXCITED, I TAKE IT.
>> Reporter: YEAH, A GREAT DAY
FOR SPACE LOVERS EVERYWHERE.
I ALWAYS SAY THE MORE THE
MERRIER IN SPACE.
THE BEAUTY OF THESE KINDS OF
MISSIONs EVERYBODY SHARES THE
DATA.
IF THIS PARTICULAR VEHICLE HAS A
DETECTOR FOR METHANE, LET'S SAY,
FOR EXAMPLE, AND THE NASA MAVEN
THAT ARRIVED A COUPLE OF DAYS
BEFORE DOESN'T, THAT DATA CAN BE
ADDED ON TO WHAT THEY'RE USING
AND THEY CAN SHARE THE
INFORMATION AND IT JUST
INCREASES OUR KNOWLEDGE AND
BUILDS ANOTHER LITTLE PUZZLE
PIECE IN UNDERSTANDING WHAT
HAPPENED TO MARS OVER THE
MILLENIA.
>> Sreenivasan: AMERICANS
ALMOST TAKE IT FOR GRANTED THAT
WE HAVE NOW SUCCESSES ON GETTING
SOMETHING UP TO THE ORBIT OF
MARS, BUT INDIA, YOU KNOW, WAS
REALLY IMPRESSED BY THE
MATHEMATICAL DIFFICULTY OF IT.
HOW HARD IS IT TO DO THE RIGHT
KIND OF COURSE CORRECTIONS TO
GET SOMETHING IN ORBIT AROUND A
DIFFERENT PLANET FROM HERE?
>> IT WASN'T TOO LONG AGO WHEN
WE WERE TALKING ABOUT A NASA
MISSION THAT CRASHED ON ITS WAY
TO ARRIVE ON MARS, AND THE
PROBLEM WAS, IF YOU WILL RECALL,
THEY HAD TWO TEAMS OPERATING ON
IT.
ONE TEAM WAS USING THE METRIC
SYSTEM, ONE TEAM WAS USING
ENGLISH UNITS, AND THEY
COMPLETELY MISSED MARS.
MISSED THE LANDING SPOT AND THAT
WAS THE END OF THAT MISSION.
SO IT'S TRICKY STUFF.
IT REALLY IS.
THE TERM, IT'S ROCKET SCIENCE,
IT REALLY IS ROCKET SCIENCE.
SO THE FACT THEY PULLED THIS OFF
IS A HUGE DEMONSTRATION OF THEIR
PROWESS AND A GREAT
TECHNOLOGICAL COMMON
ADMINISTRATOR.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE BIG
HEADLINES TODAY IS THE COST OF
GETTING SOMETHING FROM INDIA TO
MARS VERSUS, THREE DAYS AGO, THE
COST OF GETTING SOMETHING FROM
THE UNITED STATES TO THE SAME
PLANET.
WHY IS THERE SUCH A BIG
DIFFERENCE?
>> AS YOU WELL KNOW, HARI, THERE
IS A DIFFERENCE IN THE WAGE
STRUCTURE, AND THAT'S PART OF
IT.
BUT THERE IS MORE SUBTLETY TO IT
THAN THAT.
IF YOU THINK OF THE ORIGINS OF
NASA, NASA BEGAN WITH A BLANK
CHECK TO BEAT THE SOVIETS TO THE
MOON AND THAT ETHOS, THAT MIND
SET STAYED WITH THEM FOR A LONG
TIME AFTER THEY LISHED THAT GOAL
IN 1969.
SO I THINK NASA NOW HAS TURNED
AROUND ON THAT AND ARE OPENING
UP ORBIT TO COMMERCIAL ENTITIES
TO LOWER COST TO GET TO STATES.
BUT INDIANS OVER THE YEARS,
MOTHENECESSITY IS THE MOTHER OF
INVENTION.
THEY COULDN'T THROW THINGS OUT
LIKE NASA.
THEY HAD TO IT RATE IN A GRADUAL
WAY AND, AS A RESULT, YOU CAN DO
IT A LOT CHEAPER AND I THINK
THERE'S A GREAT LESSON FOR THE
U.S. SPACE PROGRAM.
>> Sreenivasan: EVEN THE ED OF
THE INDIAN SPACE PROGRAM SAYS
WE'VE STOOD ON THE SHOULDERS OF
THOSE WHO WENT BEFORE US.
SO I IMAGINE THEY BENEFIT
WATCHING THE MISTAKES AND
CORRECTIONS OF THOSE WHO HAVE
GONE THEREFORE.
>> IT'S ALWAYS MORE EXPENSIVE TO
BE FIRST.
THERE WERE MANY MISTAKES ALONG
THE WAY.
THE U.S. LOST MANY CRAFT, THE
SOVIETS LOST MANY CRAFT.
THE EUROPEANS HAVE LOST CRAFT.
FINDING IT TO MARS IS THE
BERMUDA TRIANGLE OF PLANETARY
DESTINATIONS IN OUR SOLAR
SYSTEM.
SO THE INDIANS WERE ABLE TO GO
TO SCHOOL ALL THESE YEARS AND
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO ARRIVE
THERE.
IT'S NOT EASY AND THEY'VE PROVEN
A LOT OF THINGS.
THIS IS A VERY AMBITIOUS SPACE
PROGRAM.
THEY WANT TO JOIN ONE DAY THE
RANKS OF HUMAN BEINGS INTO
SPACE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT IS IT
WITH THE FIVE CRAFT CIRCLING
MARS, WHAT ARE WE HOPING TO
LEARN ABOUT MARS WITH THESE
MISSIONS?
>> MARS IS VERY DRY, VERY
INHOSPITABLE AND VERY COLD.
3 BILLION OR 4 BILLION YEARS
AGO, IT WAS WARM AND WET AND WE
THINK A CUSHY BIRTH FOR LIFE.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN THE SMOKING GUN
THAT THERE WAS LIFE OR MAY BE
LIFE THERE SUBTERRANEAN, BUT
SOMETHING HAPPENED ON THE WAY
THERE AND UNDERSTANDING THAT IS
A VERY INTERESTING SCIENTIFIC
PROBLEM AND MAY TELL US
SOMETHING ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE
ON EARTH, FOR ONE THING.
THE OTHER THING, JUST
UNDERSTANDING IF THERE WAS LIFE,
FINDING THAT FOSSIL OR THAT TINY
MICROBE THAT MIGHT EXIST TODAY
WILL TELL US ONE WAY OR THE
PARTS OF THE UNIVERSE. IN OTHER
IF WE FIND THERE IS LIFE OR HAS
BEEN LIFE, WE CAN LOOK AT THE
STARS AND SAY, GOSH, THERE'S
PROBABLY SOMETHING ELSE OUT
THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: MILES O'BRIEN
JOINING US FROM BOSTON, THANKS
VERY MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME, HARI.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
NEW PUSH TO HELP AMERICANS SLIM
DOWN.
IT COMES FROM THE WORLD'S
LARGEST SODA MANUFACTURERS.
YESTERDAY, PEPSICO, COCA-COLA
AND DR. PEPPER SNAPPLE PLEDGED
TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF CALORIES
IN SUGARY DRINKS BY 20% OVER THE
COURSE OF THE NEXT DECADE.
THIS AFTERNOON, I MODERATED A
DISCUSSION AT THE MUSEUM IN
WASHINGTON, D.C. WITH PEPSICO'S
C.E.O. INDRA NOOYI, AND DR. RISA
LAVIZZO-MOUREY, PRESIDENT AND
C.E.O. OF THE ROBERT WOOD
JOHNSON FOUNDATION, WHICH HAVE
TOGETHER BEEN PART OF A
COALITION OF COMPANIES AND NON-
PROFITS WORKING TO CUT CALORIE
CONSUMPTION AND IMPROVE
AMERICAN'S HEALTH.
HERE IS PART OF OUR
CONVERSATION.
THIS NEW PLEDGE YESTERDAY FROM
THREE OF THE MAJOR BEVERAGE SODA
COMPANIES, HOW IS THIS
DIFFERENT?
WHAT NEW DO YOU THINK WILL
HAPPEN?
>> THIS IS A MAJOR COMMITMENT
BECAUSE, AT A POINT WHERE BAD
DRINKS ARE NOT IN VOGUE, WE'RE
SAYING WE WILL STILL COMMIT TO
REDUCING CALORIES BY 20%, WHICH
MEANS THAT WE'RE GOING TO SELL
MORE CALORIE OPTIONS, GO TO
SMALLER PACK SIZES, WHICH MEANS
VOLUME, MAYBE MOREUT
PACK SIZES, AND REFORMULATIONS,
FUNDAMENTAL R&D TO RESEARCH SO
PEOPLE CAN STILL GET A GREAT
EXPERIENCE IN A BEVERAGE BUT
MUCH LOWER CALORIE.
SO I THINK THE 20% REDUCTION IN
TEN YEARS LEAVES A HUGE
UNDERTAKING.
>> Woodruff: RISA, WHAT'S YOUR
TAKE ON THAT?
>> WE KNOW EXCESS CALORIES AND
BEVERAGES IS A SIGNIFICANT PART
OF THE CALORIES WE COULD TAKE
OUT OF THE DIET AND HAVE PEOPLE
HAVE A HEALTHIER WEIGHT.
SO IT'S SIGNIFICANT FROM THAT
PERSPECTIVE.
IT'S ALSO ONE THAT THEY'RE
SAYING THEY'RE GOING TO MEASURE
THE NUMBER OF CALORIES CONSUMED,
OR DECREASING BY 20% THE
CALORIES CONSUMED.
SO THAT'S GOING TO BE TRICKY, DO
GO FROM WHAT'S SOLD TO WHAT'S
ACTUALLY CONSUMED, AND I THINK
THAT'S ONE OF THE WAYS THAT
INDEPENDENT EVALUATORS AND
OTHERS IN THE SCIENTIFIC
COMMUNITY WILL BE LOOKING AT IT.
IT'S SIGNIFICANT, IT'S HARD TO
DO, BUT IT POTENTIALLY COULD
MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN HEALTHY
WEIGHT.
>> Woodruff: INDRA, YOU TALKED
A FEW MINUTES ON HOW SO MUCH
ATTENTION IS ON THE INDUSTRY BUT
A SO MUCH BIGGER CHALLENGE, ARE
THERE MANY MORE ACTORS WHO CAN
HAVE AN EFFECT ON THE OUTCOMES
AND THE ATTEMPT TO REDUCE
OBESITY?
WHAT ABOUT THE ROLE OF THE
PUBLIC SECTOR, OF GOVERNMENT AND
COULD THEY HAVE ATTEMPTS IN
STATES TO IMPOSE TAXES, YOU HAVE
THE HIGHLY PUBLICIZED MICHAEL
BLOOMBERG EFFORT IN NEW YORK TO
BAN SUPERSIZED SODAS, AND OTHER
EFFORTS WITH LABELING.
HOW DO YOU SEE ALL THAT?
>> I THINK THE ROLE OF
GOVERNMENT, THE ROLE OF
N.G.O.s AND POLICY MAKERS HAVE
TO BE MUCH BROADER THAN JUST SAY
LET'S BAN SUPERSIZE SODAS, OR
WHATEVER.
WE DON'T WANT TO BECOME A NANNY
STATE.
THAT SHOULD NEVER BE OUR GOAL.
FREEDOM OF CHOICE IS VERY
IMPORTANT.
PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND
RESPONSIBILITY IS VERY
IMPORTANT.
I THINK WHERE GOVERNMENT HAS TO
PLAY A ROLE FEDERAL AND STATE
LEVEL, HOW DO WE IMPROVE THE
QUALITY OF LUNCHES IN SCHOOLS?
REALLY GOOD QUALITY LUNCHES IN
SCHOOLS.
WE SPEND THE HIGHEST PER STUDENT
ON EDUCATION AS A NATION.
WHY IS OUR SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM
NOT AS NUTRITIONALLY OUTSTANDING
AT IT COULD BE?
WHY DON'T THEY HAVE MANDATORY
EVERY DAY IN SCHOOLS?
WE HAVE TO REEXAMINE THAT.
WHY DON'T WE SAY THAT THE TOWNS
HAVE TO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO
WALK?
WHY DON'T WE HAVE PLAYGROUNDS IN
OT HAVE
LITIGATION ALL THE TIME IF
SOMEBODY FALLS DOWN AND GETS
HURT?
I THINK WE HAVE SO MANY ISSUES
WE HAVE TO ADDRESS.
I THINK WE NEED TO POINT THE
FINGER AT OURSELVES IN
ADDRESSING THE ISSUE, BUT THEN
ASSUME IF YOU IMPOSE TAXONS THEM
EVERYTHING IS GOING TO GET TAKEN
CARE OF.
IT'S NOT.
IT'S A SLIPPERY SLOPE.
YOU HAVE PRIVATE LABEL
MANUFACTURERS WHO DON'T FALL
UNDER THE MAJOR MANUFACTURERS.
YOU HAVE THE RESTAURANT INDUSTRY
THAT HAVE FOOD CHOICES THAT
DON'T COME UNDER THE RULES OF
THE BRANDED MANUFACTURERS.
SO IT'S A MULTIFACETED SOLUTION
AS OPPOSED TO A SIMPLE SOLUTION
WHICH IS TO TAX AND CREATE BANS.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS IN THIS
COUNTHDRESS
IS THE GAP THAT WE SEE IN THE
AVAILABILITY OF HEALTHY FOODS BY
INCOME, AND INDRA SPOKE EARLIER,
ONE OF THE THINGS IS THE RISE IN
CHILDHOOD OBESITY HAS STARTED TO
LEVEL OFF, BUT WE'RE NOT SEEING
THE SAME CHANGE IN LOW-INCOME
COMMUNITIES AND AFRICAN-AMERICA.
WE ALSO KNOW THERE TENDS TO BE
MORE MARKETING OF UNHEALTHY
FOODS IN THESE COMMUNITIES.
SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT, AS
WE'RE ADDRESSING THIS, WE THINK
OF WAYS THAT WE CAN ALL WORK
TOGETHER TO REDUCE THAT GAP,
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT GOING TO SEE A
REAL BENEFIT AND A LEVELING OFF
AND A REDUCTION OF CHILDHOOD
OBESITY UNTIL WE'RE ABLE TO
ADDRESS IT IN ALL THE
COMMUNITIES, ESPECIALLY THOSE
WHERE THERE'S A DISPROPORTIONATE
RISK.
>> AN UPCOMING ADDITION OF PBS
"NewsHour" WEEKEND WILL FOCUS
ON THE CAMPAIGN IN SAN FRANCISCO
TO RAISE TAXES ON SUGAR-ADDED
BEVERAGES.
FOR THE RECORD, THE C.E.O. OF
WETA WHICH PRODUCES THE
"NewsHour" IS ON PEPSICO'S
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE U.S. AND ARAB ALLIES STRUCK
ISLAMIC STATE TARGETS IN SYRIA
AGAIN.
AT THE U.N., PRESIDENT OBAMA
URGED WORLD LEADERS TO JOIN THE
CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE GROUP AND
ITS "NETWORK OF DEATH."
HE ALSO WARNED THE MILITANTS TO
LEAVE THE BATTLEFIELD WHILE THEY
CAN.
AND AN ALGERIAN FACTION WITH
ISLAMIC STATE TIES BEHEADED A
FRENCHMAN TAKEN HOSTAGE LAST
SUNDAY.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.